Anthy -- Japanese Kana-Kanji Conversion Engine Library
						-*- mode:reStructuredText -*-

See https://www.nslabs.jp/patch.rhtml

目標1. 分岐したDebian版とFedora版のマージ
  長らくメンテナンスされてきたのは Debian 版だが, Fedora 版は原作者 Yusuke Tabata 氏のヴァージョンから fork しなおしている。修正点も相互に異なっていて、どちらかへの片寄せは簡単ではない。

  ブランチ          元のリポジトリ
  ---------------   ------------------------
  upstream_master   https://salsa.debian.org/debian/anthy/  'master' branch
  anthy-unicode     https://github.com/fujiwarat/anthy-unicode/  'main' branch

目標2. ライセンスの整理
  Debian 版には GPLv3, LGPLv3, LGPLv2 の 3つの LICENSE ファイルが添付されているが、トリプルライセンスなのかどうか意図が不明 (そうではない)。Fedora 版は LGPLv2 と GPLv2 の mix になっている。
  元々の意図は, Anthy には LGPL が適用され, 辞書ファイルである alt-cannadic には GPL が適用されるということだった。これを雑に一つのパッケージにまとめたのが不味い。現代の流儀だと, Anthy パッケージと, alt-cannadic から Anthy 形式の辞書を作るパッケージの二つに分割し、前者には LGPL を適用するのが意図をきちんと反映することになるだろう。

目標3. Windows へのポーティング
  GUI ではないのにべったり UNIX に依存している. ポータブルなコードに修正する。

ライセンスもコードの品質も正直微妙だが、他方, Canna は古すぎて現代の環境でコンパイルすら難しい。Anthy ぐらいしか選択肢がない。トホホ


  
What's Anthy?
=============

Anthy is a library for Japanese Kana-Kanji conversion, targeted for
Japanese text input.

See following page for Anthy development:
	http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/DebianAnthy
	http://git.debian.org/?p=pkg-anthy/anthy.git;a=summary


What's New?
===========

See the file NEWS for new features and other user-visible changes in
recent versions of Anthy.


Installation
============

The file INSTALL says how to build and install Anhty on your system.


Configuration 
=============

System administrator is expected to set up following three variables
in anthy-conf.in (usually it's under /etc/anthy directory).

    Variable name  Example                         # Comment
    ----------------------------------------------------------------
    ANTHYDIR       /usr/share/anthy                # Directory 
    DIC_FILE       /usr/share/anthy/anthy.dic      # Dictionary file
    ZIPDICT        /usr/share/anthy/dic/zipcode.t  # Zipcode file


Anthy Dictionary (anthy.dic)
============================

Here is a figure to explain how Anthy Dictionary (anthy.dic) is
generated.

   depgraph/*.depword
   depgraph/conjugate.table
    ---[depgraph/mkdepgraph]---> anthy.dep (1)

   mkworddic/{extra.t,compound.t,adjust.t,utf8.t,udict},
   alt-cannadic/{gcanna.ctd,gcannf.ctd,gtankan.ctd,g_fname.t}
    ---[mkworddic/mkworddic]---> anthy.wdic (2)

   "initial anthy.dic"
   corpus/corpus.?.txt
    ---[calctrans/{proccorpus,calctrans}]---> corpus_info (3-1)
    					      weak_words  (3-2)

      calctrans/{corpus_info,weak_words} (3-1,3-2)
       ---[calctrans/calctrans]---> anthy.cand_info (3)
       				    anthy.trans_info (4)
				    anthy.corpus_array (5)
				    anthy.corpus_bucket (6)
      				    anthy.weak_words (7)

         (1) depgraph/anthy.dep
         (2) mkworddic/anthy.wdic
         (3) calctrans/anthy.cand_info
         (4) calctrans/anthy.trans_info
         (5) calctrans/anthy.corpus_array
         (6) calctrans/anthy.corpus_bucket
         (7) calctrans/anthy.weak_words
          ---[mkanthydic/mkfiledic]--->anthy.dic

Note that we need "initial anthy.dic" to generate anthy.dic, that's
because 'proccorpus' uses Anthy Dictionary to parse text input.


Licensing
=========

Anthy library is released under the terms of the GNU Lesser General
Public Licence 3 (or later), i.e., LGPLv3+.  See the file COPYING.LIB
and COPYING for detail.

Since most of source files are released under the terms of LGPLv2 (or
later), you might use parts of code under LGPLv2.  See COPYING.LIB2_1
for detail.

Dictionary files under alt-cannadic/ and mkworddic/ are taken from
"Alternative Cannadic" Project (alt-cannadic), which is released under
the terms of GPLv2.  See alt-cannadic/COPYING for detail.

For more licensing information in general, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html>


History
=======

Anthy project was hosted at SourceForge.JP.

	http://anthy.sourceforge.jp/
	http://anthy.sourceforge.jp/cgi-bin/hiki/hiki.cgi

Since February 2009, development at there stopped.  Bug fixes and
feature requests was just floating around.

In May 2010, NIIBE Yutaka <gniibe@fsij.org> arranged Git repository at
git.debian.org, put some of released versions of Anthy and Debian
packaging code into the repository, and took over the development
lead.  At alioth.debian.org, pkg-anthy project was created for Anthy
development and Debian packaging for Anthy and related packages.


Authors & Credits
=================

See AUTHORS and THANKS.

Original Authors were TABATA Yusuke, UGAWA Tomoharu, and guys at Kyoto
University Micro Computer Club.  YOSHIDA Yuichi added some features.
The project got fund from IPA Japan (NIIBE Yutaka was project manager
in 2001 and Fumitoshi UKAI was project manager in 2003).  In the GSoC
2006 program with FSIJ, HANAOKA Toshiyuki and Higashiyama Masahiko
contributed some enhancements, under TABATA Yusuke's mentorship.

-- 
This file is part of Anthy.

Anthy is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

Anthy is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
for more details.
